{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red251\green2\blue7;\red251\green2\blue7;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c14913\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c14913\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww23360\viewh20180\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Dear Editors, \
\
We would like to thank both referees for their recommendation to publish our paper in PRB. Below, you will find the questions and comments of the referees together with our reply. We also made some revisions in our manuscript. A list containing all revisions can be found below. With these alterations, we are confident that our manuscript can now be published in PRB. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
reply to the first referee
\fs26 \
\

\f1\i It seems to me that the ideas considered in the manuscript are quite \
heavily based on reference [24], perhaps more so than is readily \
understood without actually reading that reference. I think it would \
make sense to cite reference [24] and mention that they considered \
discontinuities of the trace of the correlation matrix already \
immediately after equation (30). Also the Chern number example \
considered in section VI C is very similar if not the same as the \
example considered in [24]. This could also be mentioned immediately \
in the beginning of section VI C so the reader can e.g. look at the \
picture of the cylinder geometry in that reference and otherwise \
compare. 
\f0\i0 \
\
It is not correct to say that the ideas and results in this manuscript are heavily based on reference [24], only VI C is heavily related to [24]. The main results of our manuscript are contained in section V. Eq. (30) connects these results with the trace index of ref [24], but only if the system fulfils certain properties. \
However, we agree that we should mention ref [24] already below eq. (30). We have done so in the revised manuscript.  We also mention the connection to [24] in the beginning of section VI and comment on what is already known and what is new in our manuscript. \
\
\

\f1\i 1) I assume that N_A in eqn. (29) is just the total number operator \
for subsystem A (this should be mentioned), and \\tilde\{P\}_0 is just \
the expectation value of the number of particles in subsystem A in the \
ground state. This seems very simple, and somehow the flux insertion \
in the definition of the polarization feels like an unnecessary \
complication. Could you comment on this? 
\f0\i0 \
\
Yes, N_A is just the total number operator of particles in A and \\tilde P_0 is the expectation value of the number of particles in A.  The flux insertion argument is needed to show that /tilde P_0 is a geometric connection. So while it is more complicated, we do not want to omit it. \
\

\f1\i 2) In section VII possible extensions, such as weakly interacting \
systems, are discussed. Do you think an extension to finite \
temperature is possible? A geometric phase for mixed states based on \
Resta's definition of the polarization has recently been discussed \
[4]. 
\f0\i0 \
\
Such an extension might indeed be possible, but it is not trivial to extend the results of [4] to our results. The issue is that we need the flux insertion to link the polarization to the entanglement spectrum, see eq. (16).  Since (16) is not just an expectation value, we do not know how to properly write it for finite temperatures. \
\
\

\f1\i 3) Regarding the extension to interacting systems, the authors mention \
the possibility that the single-particle correlation matrix encodes \
the topological information for some specific cases. A very similar \
idea is the so-called topological Hamiltonian [5,6], where the \
topological information is contained in the zero-frequency Green's \
function. Noting that the correlation matrix is the \
zero-imaginary-time Green's function, there could be some connections \
between these ideas. Perhaps the authors want to mention this in their \
work. 
\f0\i0 \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 That is an interesting questions. Unfortunately, we do not know whether an extension using the Green's function is really feasible. We have, however, mentioned this possible connection in the revised manuscript. \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Have we?\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \

\fs24 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
reply to the second referee\

\fs26 \
Before answering the referee, we would like to emphasize that it is important to distinguish between the ES and the EOS when discussing the results of our paper. The ES is strictly speaking computed from the reduced density matrix and always contains all the information about the state (whether one can extract it is another issue). In case of non-interacting systems, one can in principle compute the ES from the EOS by looking at all possible ways to fill single-particle energies with a certain number of particles. Even for relatively small systems however, this becomes unfeasible as the number of possible combinations grow too fast. That is why all our results are phrased in the EOS or the single-particle ES, both of which only grow linearly with system size. \
\
\

\f1\i (1) There is a statement in the paper that the entanglement occupancy \
spectrum \\ksi is (a) 0 or 1 if the eigenstate is localized in the \
bulk; (b) away from 0 and 1 if the eigenstate is localized on the \
edge. I'm wondering if this is a numerical observation, or can be \
proven rigorously (or at least there is a strong argument)? This \
statement is crucial, as the (mod 1) definition of the main result Eq. \
(26) depends on it. (I failed to find an argument, except numerical \
observations, in Ref. 33 which was cited in this paper.) 
\f0\i0 \
\
This can be proven rigorously. We added an explanation in the second but last paragraph in section IV.  \
Let us here give a simplified argument using the dimerized limit of the SSH chain. For this limit, the EOS can be computed easily without the need of numerics. \
In the topological phase, the eigenstates of the SSH chain can be written as 1/\\sqrt\{2\} ( |j,B> \\pm |j+1, A>), where j denotes the unit cell index and A and B denote the sublattice sites. For a dimer in the interior of part A, the eigenstates are still eigenstates of the reduced density matrix, and the corresponding eigenvalue of the EOS is +1 if the eigenstate is occupied, 0 if it is not occupied. If the dimer, on the other hand, lies on the edge of A (say site j is in A, but site j+1 is in B), then the corresponding EOS eigenvalue will be 1/2 since the EOS is completely oblivious to anything living in B. In a sense, one could say that the EOS is 'measuring' to how much of an occupied state is located in A. \
\
\

\f1\i (2) Below Eq. (27), it said that "if the degeneracy is four-fold or \
higher we must obtain the localized eigenstates". Could the authors \
give a procedure or algorithm on how to obtain the localized \
eigenstates in their numerical calculation? 
\f0\i0 \
\
We added an appendix detailing such a procedure. \cf3 Carlos gives a short summary of appendix. \cf0 \
\

\f1\i (\
3) The paper also discussed 2D Chern insulator by viewing it as many \
1D models parameterized by k_y. Is there a more intrinsic 2D relation \
between ES (say, of a disk subsystem) and the bulk topological \
invariants? It would be a more natural generalization of the 1D result \
of this paper. 
\f0\i0 \
\
The simplest relation between the EOS and a Chern insulator is obtained by bi-partitioning a  torus into two cylinders. This exposes two chiral modes connecting the 0 and 1 'bands' of the EOS. This relation is already very well known, and gives the correct count of chiral edge modes for any Chern insulator and, thus, the bulk topological invariant. Using the EOS of the disk sounds simpler, as one would only have one edge. But it has the complication that one has no good quantum number to plot against (we are looking at lattice systems, so angular momentum does not work), which makes it much harder to interpret the results. One may easily determine that there are virtual edge modes in the EOS, but the number of modes and their chirality are hard to determine. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Carlos check!\cf0 \
The aim of VI is rather to show how the polarization can be used to compute the Chern number in a simple way. \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\i \cf0 (4) I understand that the interaction effect is beyond the scope of \
this manuscript, but it is valuable if the authors can comment more on \
it. As far as I understand, the ES contains the information of edge \
state, which is related to the bulk topological invariants even with \
interactions. Therefore, it seems that the result of this paper could \
be generalized to interacting systems such as symmetry-protected \
topological phases. In the conclusion part of the paper, it said that \
"With interactions, the correlation matrix does not have the full \
information of the ground state". Do you mean that we should use the \
n-point correlation function to connect ES with bulk topological \
invariant?
\f0\i0 \
\
Here it is important to distinguish between the ES and the EOS. The ES always contains the full information, but can only be computed for small systems. The question is whether the EOS or a suitable generalization contains some or all information about the system. This is a very interesting question that we do not have an answer to. It would already be an interesting result, if one could establish that the EOS retains at least some information even in presence of interactions. One should be able to reconstruct the full information from all the n-point functions, but this will be at least as hard as computing the ES. So in this context, it might be more useful to have a quantity that is very easy to compute and contains some information. \
\
\
list of changes: \
\
\
}