{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
----------------------------------------------------------------------\
Report of the First Referee -- BB14020/Ortega-Taberner\
----------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
In their work "On the relation of the entanglement spectrum to the \
bulk polarization" the authors discuss how the so-called entanglement \
occupation spectrum of a non-interacting system can be related to and \
used to calculate different versions of the bulk polarization. \
\
The proper definition of the bulk polarization, or polarization of a \
system with periodic boundary conditions, was developed more than 20 \
years ago by R. Resta, King-Smith and Vanderbild and others [1]. In \
Thouless charge pump -like setups the polarization is considered as a \
function of a periodic magnetic flux variable, and its change over one \
cycle essentially gives the amount of pumped charge. Thus it can be \
directly related to topological indices. Another way to recognize and \
characterize topological states is the entanglement entropy introduce \
in 2006 [2,3], and, by extension, the entanglement spectrum. This is \
based on the idea that topological states have some kind of \
fundamental, long range entanglement properties. Therefore it makes \
good sense to study the relation between these different views on \
topological systems. \
\
In the present work the authors first discuss definitions of the \
polarization and the entanglement occupation spectrum (EOS) in the \
previous literature (section III and IV). The relation between the \
polarization and the EOS is presented in section V. In section VI the \
authors discuss shortcomings of the polarization defined in a system \
with periodic boundary conditions, namely that it is only defined mod \
1. From the EOS point of view they relate this ambiguity to the fact \
that dividing the system into two subsystems leaves two boundaries, \
and one needs to determine by some criterion which modes "belong" to \
which boundary. They then propose a solution by defining a new \
polarization in an open system (equations 28 and 29), where the \
subsystems only have a single boundary. This polarization is shown to \
be equivalent to the trace of the single-particle correlation matrix \
of one subsystem, which has previously been used to define a \
topological index called the "trace index" in reference [24] of the \
manuscript. \
\
It seems to me that the ideas considered in the manuscript are quite \
heavily based on reference [24], perhaps more so than is readily \
understood without actually reading that reference. I think it would \
make sense to cite reference [24] and mention that they considered \
discontinuities of the trace of the correlation matrix already \
immediately after equation (30). Also the Chern number example \
considered in section VI C is very similar if not the same as the \
example considered in [24]. This could also be mentioned immediately \
in the beginning of section VI C so the reader can e.g. look at the \
picture of the cylinder geometry in that reference and otherwise \
compare. \
\
Despite the similarities to reference [24], the manuscript also brings \
new insight into the nature of the "trace index" and the meaning of \
the trace of the correlation matrix and it's relation to the \
polarization. The manifestation of a symmetry protected topological \
insulator as a branch cut of the polarization \\tilde\{P\}_0 is novel to \
my knowledge and I find it aesthetically pleasing. For these reasons \
the work probably deserves to be published in Physical review B. Below \
are some questions and comments that the authors could think about \
first: \
\
1) I assume that N_A in eqn. (29) is just the total number operator \
for subsystem A (this should be mentioned), and \\tilde\{P\}_0 is just \
the expectation value of the number of particles in subsystem A in the \
ground state. This seems very simple, and somehow the flux insertion \
in the definition of the polarization feels like an unnecessary \
complication. Could you comment on this? \
\
2) In section VII possible extensions, such as weakly interacting \
systems, are discussed. Do you think an extension to finite \
temperature is possible? A geometric phase for mixed states based on \
Resta's definition of the polarization has recently been discussed \
[4]. \
\
3) Regarding the extension to interacting systems, the authors mention \
the possibility that the single-particle correlation matrix encodes \
the topological information for some specific cases. A very similar \
idea is the so-called topological Hamiltonian [5,6], where the \
topological information is contained in the zero-frequency Green's \
function. Noting that the correlation matrix is the \
zero-imaginary-time Green's function, there could be some connections \
between these ideas. Perhaps the authors want to mention this in their \
work. \
\
[1] Resta, Rev. Mod. Phys. 66, 899 (1994) \
\
[2] Kitaev and Preskill, Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 110404 (2006) \
\
[3] Levin and Wen, Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 110405 (2006) \
\
[4] Bardyn et al, Phys. Rev. X 8, 011035 (2018) \
\
[5] Wang and Zhang, Phys. Rev. X 2, 031008 (2012) \
\
[6] Wang and Yan, J. Phys. Condens. Matter 25 155601 (2013)\
\
----------------------------------------------------------------------\
Report of the Second Referee -- BB14020/Ortega-Taberner\
----------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
In this manuscript, the authors established a direct relation between \
the entanglement spectrum (ES) and bulk polarization (bulk topological \
invariant) in free fermion systems. These relations are proven in the \
appendix and illustrated numerically in an explicit 1D model \
with/without some symmetries. In some sense, the result is very \
natural, as it is well-known that ES contains topological information \
of the system. But this paper gives a direct quantitative relation \
between them, which is very nice. \
\
The problem they are studying is of broad interest to the community of \
topological phases. And the results contain enough significant new \
physics. Therefore, I recommend it for publication in Physical Review \
B. \
\
I hope that the authors could address the following comments: \
\
(1) There is a statement in the paper that the entanglement occupancy \
spectrum \\ksi is (a) 0 or 1 if the eigenstate is localized in the \
bulk; (b) away from 0 and 1 if the eigenstate is localized on the \
edge. I'm wondering if this is a numerical observation, or can be \
proven rigorously (or at least there is a strong argument)? This \
statement is crucial, as the (mod 1) definition of the main result Eq. \
(26) depends on it. (I failed to find an argument, except numerical \
observations, in Ref. 33 which was cited in this paper.) \
\
(2) Below Eq. (27), it said that "if the degeneracy is four-fold or \
higher we must obtain the localized eigenstates". Could the authors \
give a procedure or algorithm on how to obtain the localized \
eigenstates in their numerical calculation? \
\
(3) The paper also discussed 2D Chern insulator by viewing it as many \
1D models parameterized by k_y. Is there a more intrinsic 2D relation \
between ES (say, of a disk subsystem) and the bulk topological \
invariants? It would be a more natural generalization of the 1D result \
of this paper. \
\
(4) I understand that the interaction effect is beyond the scope of \
this manuscript, but it is valuable if the authors can comment more on \
it. As far as I understand, the ES contains the information of edge \
state, which is related to the bulk topological invariants even with \
interactions. Therefore, it seems that the result of this paper could \
be generalized to interacting systems such as symmetry-protected \
topological phases. In the conclusion part of the paper, it said that \
"With interactions, the correlation matrix does not have the full \
information of the ground state". Do you mean that we should use the \
n-point correlation function to connect ES with bulk topological \
invariant?}